---
author: "Shaham Noorani"
title: "30"
date: "2021-11-25"
description: "rant"
tags: ["about me"]
aliases: ["30"]
ShowToc: true
TocOpen: false
enableEmoji: true
weight: 10
draft: false
---

<!--blurb-->

<!--more-->
If you're here for my usual spiel about productivity and the world of software engineering—then you should look elsewhere, for this is not that. This is my implementation of the not-so-famous writing style called "stream of consciousness." This writing style is one that has minimal effort allocated towards grammar, syntax, and sometimes spelling. I would have spelled some words incorrectly in that last sentence in a pursuit of irony, if it weren't for my OCD and hate of those pesky red lines that form under words that are spelt "wrong". 

I'm going to go on a **lot** of tangents in this post, and I'm already expecting the approximated reading time for this post to be well over 10 or 15 minutes (edit: thankfully I was wrong). But fuck it. Maybe you read this, and it changes your life. Maybe you read this, and you change the way you look at me. Maybe I've already lost you and all I've accomplished is wasting your time that you could've spent on something else. But fuck it. I'm writing this. 

The first thing that I'm going to talk about is the thing that I've always cared waaaaaay too much about: career choice. I don't know for sure why I've always thought of this. Maybe it's b/c of my aforementioned OCD. Maybe it's because my parents were broke. Maybe it's because of my grandmother. Maybe it's because I've always felt like I have to help as many people as I possibly can in the future, and that picking the right career will be pivotal in that grand mission. 

But maybe, I shouldn't give a fuck about any of that. What if I want to be a writer, huh? What if I don't want a comfortable job in tech as a software engineer, being overpaid and looked up to as "the future" or any of the other bull shit that comes along with it. Maybe I think coding is fucking boring, and that you could teach any half-competent monkey to code with "good enough" proficiency. Maybe I want to pursue the arts—be creative. But I'm brown, and I know how to code, and my parents are poor, and no one wants to marry an artist, and maybe nani ma wouldn't be proud of me if she saw me becoming an artist. But a part of me thinks that she would. A part of me thinks that if she was still around, and I was singing or dancing in front of a crowd of people, and she had no idea what I was saying, she would still give me the biggest hug she could muster and tell me she was proud. 

I don't want to live a boring life. I want challenge. I want excitement. I want risk. I want love. I want everything life has to offer. I want to help people, I want to make them smile, I want everlasting and sterling friendships, I want to inspire, and motivate, and shine. I want to adapt a different natural writing style than alliteration. I think I want to be a writer. 

But for all of my love for risk, no one can truly love it—for it is a real bitch. There is a very real chance that I spend the next ten years of my life trying to be a writer, and this happens: my parents lose hope in me, I can't support my family, I try to start a new one, but Kyleigh can't keep wasting her life with me, no one wants me, I keep failing, after a while, I stop making progress, I get sick, I can't make rent, I'm on the streets, I lost motivation, I make a huge mistake, I keep making mistakes, after a while, I only make mistakes, and I may be the smartest guy in the whole world. but. 

I fail. 

That was kinda intense so let's go on a tangent. I watched a movie today. Started it a bit before midnight. Wait so technically, I started it yesterday? The point being it was **really good**. Like, life-changing-ly good. The movie was called *tick, tick...Boom!*. Stellar movie, you should give it a watch. It was on Netflix. The movie was based on a musical, but it was about a playwright in new york that was on the brink of turning 30—but had nothing. At least that's how he felt. No successful plays, he worked at a diner, had been working on the same piece for 8 years, but no luck. I'm going to stop here, to avoid spoiling the movie for you but it was really good and it's what inspired me to write this post. 

I learned a lot from this 2 hour movie. The first was about our last topic, career fit. And the second was about love. Since we're still taking a break from the first one (and no this def is not me procrastinating), let's talk about love. Love is hard. It's especially hard when you're young. Love is easy, simple, but heavy, and complex. Love is happiness, and growth, and anger, and sex, and both the nadir and zenith of life. My best and worst memories in 2021 were both related directly to love—isn't that crazy? It's like the exact definition of a double-edged sword. It feels great, and it sucks. Maybe it's because I'm young, or maybe it's because I'm an absolute head-ass, but I really, really suck at this love thing. Like so bad that a girl that is way too perfect to exist and way too nice to leave me—I put this girl in so much pain all the time, but every morning, when she looks at me with her eyes half open, still tucked under the sheets to avoid the chill of the fan, she has the sweetest and most beautiful smile I have ever seen, and it's meant for me. This is a woman I've lied to, a woman I've brought to tears more times than I can count on both of my hands, a woman who I've criticized and condemned to her core—and she still loves me. And I love her, so fucking much that I'm willing to slave away for the rest of my life if it means we're guaranteed a safe future together with our family. 

Ok. I'm gonna stop being a pussy and talk about career fit. It seems like a big decision, but it's really not. 30 is just a number. There's no clause in the laws of physics that states any requirements for a 30 year-old man or woman. But that don't fly. The thought of not being married, or not having a stable job, or not having or mortgage, or not liking wine yet, by the age of 30, shakes us at our core. Sometimes, I wonder if taking the easy route is really all that bad. I could absolutely fucking drift, put it no fucking effort, and have all of that (maybe minus the wine part). But "Metaphorically speaking, someone who takes 'the road less traveled' is acting independently, freeing themselves from the conformity of others (who choose to take 'the road more often traveled')". That's from google, thank you google. And reading this, reminds of something a friend of mine told me recently. He said, after weeks of deliberation and mental chaos, when I finally sat down and asked him what he really wanted, that he wanted "clarity." I think that what he meant by this was a straightforward path where he could work hard, grow linearly, face and overcome adversity, and in the end, have a happy ending. I think that deep down, we all want this, but this is what I think makes life so hard—no one truly has this. Even for those that seem like they've got everything figured out, they may not be pursuing the path that is truly right for them, or maybe they've found it, and maybe they've been pursuing it for years, but most of those people are constantly plagued with doubts. But for that select few who have no doubts, they are the ones we should truly envy. Not the man with the rolex, or the woman who drives a nice BMW, or that guy who's cock has a z-score of 2.8. We should envy the people that, although they don't have it all figured out, they've accepted the risk and are done hiding from it. 

And we should take risks. David Epstein wrote an entire book about "how generalists triumph in a specialized world" called *Range*. He talks about how you should explore different fields and practices and styles. He says that although you may not find your true and sacred purpose on your first or second or tenth try, that every step along the way you learned and grew so that when you do find that purpose, you're a better man (or attack helicopter ig) for it. This means that I can try project management, and if I don't like that I can pursue writing, and if I don't like that I can give organizational psychology a go, and then astronomy, and then speaking, and then entrepreneurship, and that as long as I keep learning and growing every step of the way, everything will be ok. Right? Right...sounds easy enough on paper, but is that really how this is going to go? If the answer is yes then I'm never going to have another doubt in my mind again. But maybe the answer is no. Maybe the successive failures tear me down from the core and I lose my unique spark. Maybe after all of that I still haven't found my purpose. Maybe through all of that, Kyleigh leaves me, or I lose my true friends, or I go insane, or worst of all, I don't grow from any of it and I turn 30. 

I'm a very planning dependent guy. I need a plan. The thing I just described is a plan. So I have a plan. But I don't know if it's a good plan. What if everything goes to shit. What if my plan doesn't work. Of course I'm not going to think that because I'm an incredibly overconfident and self-centered narcissist who thinks I'm some sort of really smart guy that can do things others can't. But that ain't true. The real reason I don't have faith in this plan is because I won't have faith in any plan, even the perfect one, because of my Achilles's Heel: I always want more. I want to help more people. I want to have more friends. I want to make more money. I want to have more sex. I want to make people laugh more. I always, always want more. And it fucking pisses me off. 

I'm not the settling type. If I was, I would be happy being a software engineer for the rest of my life, being overpaid and never having to truly struggle again. And I know I'm grossly over exaggerating, but you get what I'm saying—I wouldn't be reaching, stretching for that extra inch every step of the way. 

I'm getting kinda tired, my motivation is waning, but everyone wants a happy ending, so I'm going to give you one.

Please do what you love. Please cherish your friendships and your loved ones. Please take risks so that you may have no regrets. Please take a step back and try to truly be thankful for everything you have. 

Please take a risk and tell me about it, so that I may find the courage to take one myself. 
404-713-4445